@node zebra, ripd, Basic commands, Top
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@chapter zebra

@c SYNOPSIS
@command{zebra} is an IP routing manager.  It provides kernel routing table
updates, interface lookups, and redistribution of routes between
different routing protocols.

@menu
* Invoking zebra::              Running the program
* Interface Commands::          Commands for zebra interfaces
* Static Route Commands::       Commands for adding static routes
* zebra Terminal Mode Commands::  Commands for zebra's VTY
@end menu


@node Invoking zebra, Interface Commands, zebra, zebra
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Invoking zebra

Besides the common invocation options (@pxref{Common Invocation Options}), the
@command{zebra} specific invocation options are listed below.

@table @samp
@item -b
@itemx --batch
Runs in batch mode.  @command{zebra} parses configuration file and terminates
immediately.

@item -k
@itemx --keep_kernel
When zebra starts up, don't delete old self inserted routes.

@item -l
@itemx --log_mode
Set verbose logging on.

@item -r
@itemx --retain
When program terminates, retain routes added by zebra.

@end table

@node Interface Commands, Static Route Commands, Invoking zebra, zebra
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Interface Commands

@deffn Command {interface @var{ifname}} {}
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {shutdown} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {no shutdown} {}
Up or down the current interface.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {ip address @var{address}} {}
Set ip address for the interface.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {description @var{description} ...} {}
Set description for the interface.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {multicast} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {no multicast} {}
Enable or disables multicast flag for the interface.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interface Command} {bandwidth <1-10000000>} {}
@deffnx {Interface Command} {no bandwidth <1-10000000>} {}
Set bandwidth value to the interface.  This is for calculating OSPF
cost.  This command does not set actual device configuration.
@end deffn

@node Static Route Commands, zebra Terminal Mode Commands, Interface Commands, zebra
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Static Route Commands

@deffn Command {table @var{tableno}} {}
Select the primary kernel routing table to be used.  This only works for
kernels supporting multiple routing tables (like Linux 2.2.x).
@end deffn

@deffn Command {ip route @var{network} @var{gateway}} {}
@end deffn

@deffn Command {ipv6 route @var{network} @var{gateway}} {}
@end deffn

@node zebra Terminal Mode Commands,  , Static Route Commands, zebra
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section zebra Terminal Mode Commands

@deffn Command {show ip route} {}
Display current routes which zebra holds in its database.

@example
@group
Router# show ip route 
Codes: K - kernel route, C - connected, S - static, R - RIP, 
       B - BGP * - FIB route.

K* 0.0.0.0/0              203.181.89.241
S  0.0.0.0/0              203.181.89.1
C* 127.0.0.0/8            lo
C* 203.181.89.240/28      eth0
@end group
@end example
@end deffn

@deffn Command {show ipv6 route} {}
@end deffn

@deffn Command {show interface} {}
@end deffn

@deffn Command {show ipforward} {}
Display whether the host's IP forwarding function is enabled or not.
Almost any UNIX kernel can be configured with IP forwarding disabled.
If so, the box can't work as a router.
@end deffn

@deffn Command {show ipv6forward} {}
Display whether the host's IP v6 forwarding is enabled or not.
@end deffn
